Job Number: R0157168

Data Scientist

The Opportunity:

Are you excited at the prospect of unlocking the secrets held by a data set? Are you fascinated by the possibilities presented by IoT, machine learning, and artificial intelligence advances? In an increasingly connected world, massive amounts of structured and unstructured data open new opportunities. As a data scientist, you can turn these complex data sets into useful information to solve global challenges. Across private and public sectors, data can provide answers to problems ranging from fraud detection, to cancer research, to national intelligence.

We have an opportunity for you to use your analytical skills to improve climate science applications. You’ll work closely with your customers to understand their questions and needs, and then dig into their data-rich environment to find the pieces of their information puzzle. You’ll develop algorithms, build models, and use the right combination of tools and frameworks to turn a set of disparate data points into objective answers to help senior leadership make informed decisions. You’ll provide your customers with a deep understanding of their data, what it all means, and how they can use it. Join us as we use data science for good in building climate change solutions. This position is a hybrid role with a combination of working at a Booz Allen office or client site and working remotely.

Work with us as we use data science for good.

Join us. The world can’t wait.

You Have: 
3+ years of experience with data scientist, dashboard development, data analytics, statistics, or machine learning engineering
3+ years of experience with R-Shiny application development
Experience with R or Python for statistical analysis and optimization
Experience with building, testing, and presenting mathematical models to facilitate client decision making
Experience with working in a team environment for application development, including Git expertise, quality assurance and quality control of data processing workstreams, and feature testing
Ability to research new analytical and scientific methods to improve client mission, communicate findings to the team or client, and implement high-quality deliverables
Ability to assess numbers, trends, and data to reach new conclusions based on findings
Ability to obtain a security clearance
Bachelor's degree

Nice If You Have: 
Experience with developing solutions leveraging DevSecOps and CI/CD best practices
Experience with Docker deployment
Experience with using development environments including UNIX, Linux, distributed systems, or cloud platforms, including Azure, AWS, or GovCloud
Knowledge of statistical analysis, time series analysis, and optimization
Possession of excellent organizational and time management skills to handle multiple tasks

Clearance:

Applicants selected will be subject to a security investigation and may need to meet eligibility requirements for access to classified information.

Compensation: 

At Booz Allen, we celebrate your contributions, provide you with opportunities and choices, and support your total well-being. Our offerings include health, life, disability, financial, and retirement benefits, as well as paid leave, professional development, tuition assistance, work-life programs, and dependent care. Our recognition awards program acknowledges employees for exceptional performance and superior demonstration of our values. Full time and part time employees working at least 20 hours a week on a regular basis are eligible to participate in Booz Allen’s benefit programs, individuals that do not meet the threshold are only eligible for select offerings, not inclusive of health benefits.

Salary for this position is determined by various factors, including but not limited to, location, the candidate’s particular combination of knowledge, skills, competencies and experience, as well as contract specific affordability and organizational requirements. The proposed salary range for this position is outlined below.

Colorado: $90,000 - $137,000 (annualized USD)

New York (including New York City): $100,000 - $160,000 (annualized USD)